group.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Research Group
permalink: /group/
show_in_nav: false
---

<img src="{{ site.url }}/assets/af.png" width="150">

I am in the process of starting a group meeting at UW Astronomy to discuss topics that I have interest and expertise in with other researchers, as well as to provide a structured venue for discussion and collaboration.
My goal for the group is to develop a human-centered approach to science, collaboration, and mentorship. We will study topics including (but not limited to) stellar activity, exoplanets, time-domain research, SETI, tool development, data visualization, and public engagement/outreach.

I have a placeholder [GitHub group](https://github.com/TheAstroFactory) now, and a working title: the Astro Factory

We will have a charter or mission statement, and we will be explicit about mentioning it and updating it as needed.

We will lower the bar to writing and publishing by broadening our scope for defining "publication", and making projects more fun and collaborative.

We will all be involved in writing papers and grants. We will all have a website.

We will celebrate and document our process, our failures, and our victories.

Commit message:

add group and values page

group.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Research Group
permalink: /group/
show_in_nav: true
---

<img src="{{ site.url }}/assets/af.png" width="150">


I manage a weekly "group un-meeting", which should be viewed as a continuous experiment in supporting my [stated values](https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.09963) as a practicing scientist. As such, the format is not strict, and will be revised by and for the needs of those attending. Topical areas  are also not strictly defined.

## Details
Meetings are nominally each week for 1 hour: Mondays, 10AM, PAB 305 conference room.

**Monday morning?!** Yes. This meeting aims to be _aspirational_, rather than judgmental. What are you hoping to do or learn this week? How can we help hype you up? What support do you need? Never: justify your existence.

## Values

- I believe science is a **practice**. We should always be learning and changing our approach to reach the best outcomes.
- I believe in "**Human Centered Project & Mentorship Design**"
- We should strive for, and broadly define, **scholarship, creativity, and collaboration**
- "Perfect is the enemy of the good" -[Voltaire](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Perfect_is_the_enemy_of_good)




Practical Items:

- We will "publish" as much as possible.
- Side-projects, wild ideas, hacks, creativity are all encouraged.
- We will all be involved in writing papers and grants.
- Discuss careers and strategy openly and without judgement. 
- We will all have a website.
- We will celebrate and document our process, our failures, and our victories.
- A placeholder [GitHub group](https://github.com/TheAstroFactory) we can use for branding if we like.
